# PetPalStories
Live at: https://petpalstories.de/

My Django Project Nov - Dec 2022

Python Web Framework @ SoftUni

## Documentation:

### INITIATION: 
My final project for 'Python Web Framework' course at SoftUni. It has been developed for the sake of pets and was inspired by my beloved pet Riva.

### IDEA: 
Creating an operational Web Application, which allows users to register, login, create, edit and delete profiles and content, interact with each other in various ways. 
The primary focus of 'PetPalStories' is on pets - publishing Stories with pictures, starting and signing Petitions, posting and commenting in Forum, sending private messages to story authors, etc.

### CONTENT: 
PetPalStories project consists of several apps, static files folder, templates, tests and others. 
Post comments have been developed, using Django Rest Framework and JS to prevent page reloading and gain better UX performance. User's inputs are sanitized by using "Bleach" library.
The customized Admin part of the application allows access to authorized users with given permissions, depending on their roles - Superusers, Staff, Story Admins, Petition Admins, Forum Admins

### EMAILS: 
The application sends autogenerated e-mails via MailJet upon given events like user registration, new comment to a post, petition's goal reach.

### SECURITY: 
Custom, extra security features are implemented to prevent unauthorized access to other users' data or others publications editing and deleting. The project also uses environment variables to hide sensitive information. 

### DB & MEDIA: 
The project uses PostgreSQL as a DBMS. Image files are hosted on Cloudinary

### BACKEND: 
Django Framework, Django REST Framework

### FRONTEND: 
The project uses Django Templates, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap5, Popper, JS. 
Responsive design, thanks to Bootstrap5 and CSS3.

### HOSTING: 
Amazon Web Services


#### MAIN THIRD PARTIES:

    'Bootstrap5',
    'Django-Bootstrap5',
    'Cloudinary',
    'MailJet',
    'Django Rest Framework',


##### DISCLAIMER: 
This Application has non-commercial purposes, it is not primarily intended for, or directed towards, commercial advantage or monetary compensation.

###### *EMOTIONAL VALUES: 
###### This Project has been developed in Memoriam of my beloved pet Riva. Her pictures appear on the landing page.